DOI,PMID,arXiv ID,Title,Abstract,Authors,Journal,Year
10.1016/j.compstruct.2018.05.002,,,The use of intelligent computational tools for damage detection and identification with an emphasis on composites – A review,,"Guilherme Ferreira Gomes,Guilherme Ferreira Gomes,Yohan A. D. Méndez,Yohan Alí Diaz Mendéz,Patrícia da Silva Lopes Alexandrino,Patricia da Silva Lopes Alexandrino,Sebastião Simões da Cunha,Sebastião Simões da Cunha,Antônio Carlos Ancelotti,Antonio Carlos Ancelotti",Composite Structures,2018
10.1007/s11831-018-9273-4,,,A Review of Vibration Based Inverse Methods for Damage Detection and Identification in Mechanical Structures Using Optimization Algorithms and ANN,The Structural Health Monitoring (SHM) technique is today the principle approach to manage the discovery and recognizable proof of damage in the most various designing areas. The need to monitor structural behavior is increasing every day but due to the development of new materials and increasingly complex structures. This leads to the development of increasingly robust and sensitive SHM methodologies and techniques. Damage Identification by means of intelligent signal processing and optimization algorithms based in vibration metrics are particularly emphasized in this paper. The methods discussed here are mainly elaborated by the evaluation of vibrational and modal data due to the great potential (and relatively easy to apply) of application. This article discusses the use of optimization algorithms and Artificial Neural Networks (ANN) for structural monitoring in the form of a brief review. This paper can be seen as a starting point of developing SHM systems and data analysis. The content of this paper aims to help engineers and researchers find a better alternative to their specific structural monitoring problems.,"Guilherme Ferreira Gomes,Guilherme Ferreira Gomes,Yohan A. D. Méndez,Yohan Alí Diaz Mendéz,Patrícia da Silva Lopes Alexandrino,Patricia da Silva Lopes Alexandrino,Sebastião Simões da Cunha,Sebastião Simões da Cunha,Antônio Carlos Ancelotti,Antonio Carlos Ancelotti",Archives of Computational Methods in Engineering,2019
10.1007/s00366-018-0620-8,,,A sunflower optimization (SFO) algorithm applied to damage identification on laminated composite plates,"The need for global damage detection methods that can be applied in complex structures has led to the development of methods that examine the structural dynamic behavior. The damage detection problem can be considered as a inverse problem with minimization of a objective function. For those reasons, a new nature-inspired optimization method based on sunflowers’ motion is introduced. The proposed sunflower optimization algorithm (SFO) technique is a population-based iterative heuristic global optimization algorithm for multi-modal problems. Compared to traditional algorithms, SFO employs terms as root velocity and pollination providing robustness. The new method is then applied in an inverse problem of structural damage detection in composite laminated plates.","Guilherme Ferreira Gomes,Guilherme Ferreira Gomes,Sebastião Simões da Cunha,Sebastião Simões da Cunha,Antônio Carlos Ancelotti,Antonio Carlos Ancelotti",Engineering With Computers,2019
10.1007/s00158-018-2024-1,,,Sensor placement optimization applied to laminated composite plates under vibration,"The location optimization of sensors is a essential problem in structural health monitoring systems. Taking the cost of sensors into account, it is uneconomical to install sensors on every part of a structure and moreover in aeronautical industry, the weight is a crucial factor. In this paper, a optimal placement optimization of sensor locations for structural health monitoring systems is studied. Several techniques of optimization of sensors are approached and applied in a shell structure. The structure, a laminate of carbon fiber, was modeled by the finite element method (FEM) and then subject to free vibration. Genetic algorithms (GAs) are then employed to locate the best sensor distribution to cover a specific number of low frequency modes. Numerical results have demonstrated the overall efficiency of sensor delivery methods. Specific problems occurred, especially regarding the method of effective independence, being less efficient and discrepant in relation to the other methods employed. In summary, the results obtained in this paper provide an optimal position for sensors in real SHM systems and experiments.","Guilherme Ferreira Gomes,Guilherme Ferreira Gomes,Sebastião Simões da Cunha,Sebastião Simões da Cunha,Patrícia da Silva Lopes Alexandrino,Patricia da Silva Lopes Alexandrino,Bruno Silva de Sousa,Bruno Silva de Sousa,Antônio Carlos Ancelotti,Antonio Carlos Ancelotti",Structural and Multidisciplinary Optimization,2018
10.1007/s00170-018-2502-z,,,An estimate of the location of multiple delaminations on aeronautical CFRP plates using modal data inverse problem,"With the increase in the use of composite materials, especially in the aeronautical industry, it is essential that a complete evaluation of the mechanical performance of such structures be undertaken, especially with regard to structural integrity. To assist in this task, structural health monitoring methodologies are employed in order to minimize time and maintenance costs, and errors arising principally from human factors, and which can occasionally result from the failure to properly inspect the aircrafts. This study addresses the use of an inverse method for delamination identification in carbon fiber reinforced polymers plates. First, the direct problem was modeled via a finite element method in order to obtain a faithful model that represented the real case studied. The inverse problem was solved by minimizing an objective function through genetic algorithms. Modal responses of delaminated plates are able to identify the possible location of multiple delaminations in laminated plates since the structural matrices are changed as a function of the induced damage. Numerical and experimental results showed excellent identification of small delaminations, reducing the initial search area by up to 96%, which can lead to savings in time and costs for the aeronautical industry.","Guilherme Ferreira Gomes,Guilherme Ferreira Gomes,Fabrício Alves de Almeida,Fabrício Alves de Almeida,Sebastião Simões da Cunha,Sebastião Simões da Cunha,Antônio Carlos Ancelotti,Antonio Carlos Ancelotti",The International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing Technology,2018
10.1007/s13349-018-0308-1,,,Structural identification and evaluation for SHM applications,"Optimal condition monitoring, maintenance and management of the existing civil infrastructure have been identified as a critical factor in ensuring and raising the economic productive capacity. Direct in-service structural health monitoring and vibration behaviour measurement data are essential to provide more accurate performance assessment and capacity estimation. The main focus of this special issue, organised by Australian Network of Structural Health Monitoring (ANSHM), is to present recent developments and applications of innovative techniques for structural modelling, structural identification with uncertainties, data interpretation for structural performance prediction and reserve capacity evaluation.","Tommy H.T. Chan,Tommy H.T. Chan,Jun Li,Jun Li,Colin C. Caprani,Colin Christopher Caprani",Journal of Civil Structural Health Monitoring,2018
10.1016/j.apm.2018.09.034,,,Optimal sensor placement for spatial lattice structure based on three-dimensional redundancy elimination model,"Abstract   Spatial lattice structures are widely applied in engineering fields attributed to their superiorities in weight and reasonable stress. It is essential to select the best sensor placement layout for structural health monitoring and safety purposes, yet it is neither realistic nor efficient to place sensors in every location possible on the structure. To meet the strong requirements for optimal sensor placement in spatial lattice structure, this paper aims to investigate a combined objective function based on effective independence method and three dimensional redundancy elimination model to balance between optimal sensor placement performance and elimination in redundancy. To eliminate redundant information and resource waste caused by the clustered sensor distribution, the three-dimensional redundancy elimination model is constructed with the consideration of nearer nodes and overall sensor distribution ranges in three-dimensional cases. In addition, the combined function is constructed by giving the two component functions equal significance using weighting factors and normalization, and solved by genetic algorithm. Finally, the proposed method for spatial lattice structure is supported by three numerical examples including a simple lattice structure, a ground spatial truss structure and a space docking modular in space solar power satellite.","Chen Yang,Chen Yang,Chen Yang,Wanzheng Zheng,Wanzheng Zheng,Xuejing Zhang,Xuepan Zhang,Xuepan Zhang,Xuepan Zhang",Applied Mathematical Modelling,2019
10.1016/j.engstruct.2018.11.081,,,Optimized damage identification in CFRP plates by reduced mode shapes and GA-ANN methods,,"Guilherme Ferreira Gomes,Guilherme Ferreira Gomes,Fabrício Alves de Almeida,Fabrício Alves de Almeida,Diego Morais Junqueira,Diego Morais Junqueira,Sebastião Simões da Cunha,Sebastião Simões da Cunha,Antônio Carlos Ancelotti,Antonio Carlos Ancelotti",Engineering Structures,2019
10.32604/sdhm.2018.05122,,,Delamination Identification for FRP Composites with Emphasis on Frequency-Based Vibration Monitoring-A Review,"Fibre reinforced polymer (FRP) composite laminates are now commonly used in many structural applications, especially in the aerospace industry, where margins of safety are kept low in order to minimise weight. Timely detection and assessment of damage (in particular delaminations) in composite laminates are therefore critical, as they can cause loss of structural integrity affecting the safe operation of the composite structures. The current trend is towards implementation of structural health monitoring (SHM) systems which can monitor the structures in situ without down time. In this paper, first, the current available SHM techniques for delamination detection in FRP composites are briefly reviewed, including acoustic emission, fibre optic sensors, Lamb wave-, impedance- and vibration-based methods. Among different vibration-based methods, frequency monitoring is the simplest to implement, requiring only single point measurement, and is relatively accurate and reliable, thus it becomes the main focus of present paper. A comprehensive review of frequency-based vibration monitoring is conducted in terms of the various aspects of delamination identification in FRPs through frequency shifts, including review of theoretical models for free vibration of delaminated FRP beams, survey of finite element modelling of delaminated composite structures, summary of experimental modal analyses on FRP composites with delaminations, and inverse algorithms for frequency-based delamination assessment. This paper aims to help the readers to get an overview of the available SHM techniques for monitoring the integrity of FRP composites, with a special emphasis on delamination assessment through frequency-based vibration monitoring.","Mengyue He,Mengyue He,Mengyue He,Zhifang Zhang,Zhifang Zhang,Karthik Ram Ramakrishnan,Karthik Ram Ramakrishnan",,2018
10.1016/j.compositesa.2019.02.002,,,Vibration-based delamination detection in curved composite plates,,"Zhifang Zhang,Zhifang Zhang,Jingwen Pan,Jingwen Pan,Weili Luo,Weili Luo,Karthik Ram Ramakrishnan,Karthik Ram Ramakrishnan,Hemant Kumar Singh,Hemant Kumar Singh",Composites Part A-applied Science and Manufacturing,2019
10.1080/17415977.2019.1583225,,,"A robust optimization for damage detection using multiobjective genetic algorithm, neural network and fuzzy decision making","ABSTRACTAn inverse problem of damage identification and localization in a structure is modelled as a robust optimization problem. In the robust optimization problem, the optimum value and small var...","Patrícia da Silva Lopes Alexandrino,Patricia da Silva Lopes Alexandrino,Guilherme Ferreira Gomes,Guilherme Ferreira Gomes,Sebastião Simões da Cunha,Sebastião Simões da Cunha",Inverse Problems in Science and Engineering,2020
10.1016/j.engappai.2019.08.004,,,Data interpretation framework integrating machine learning and pattern recognition for self-powered data-driven damage identification with harvested energy variations,"Abstract   Data mining methods have been widely used for structural health monitoring (SHM) and damage identification for analysis of continuous signals. Nonetheless, the applicability and effectiveness of these techniques cannot be guaranteed when dealing with discrete binary and incomplete/missing signals (i.e., not continuous in time). In this paper a novel data interpretation framework for SHM with noisy and incomplete signals, using a through-substrate self-powered sensing technology, is presented within the context of artificial intelligence (AI). AI methods, namely, machine learning and pattern recognition, were integrated within the data interpretation framework developed for use in a practical engineering problem: data-driven SHM of plate-like structures. Finite element simulations on an aircraft stabilizer wing and experimental vibration tests on a dynamically loaded plate were conducted to validate the proposed framework. Machine learning algorithms, including support vector machine, k-nearest neighbor, and artificial neural networks, were integrated within the developed learning framework for performance assessment of the monitored structures. Different levels of harvested energy were considered to evaluate the robustness of the SHM system with respect to such variations. Results demonstrate that the SHM methodology employing the proposed machine learning-based data interpretation framework is efficient and robust for damage detection with incomplete and sparse/missing binary signals, overcoming the notable issue of energy availability for smart damage identification platforms being used in structural/infrastructure and aerospace health monitoring. The present study aims to advance data mining and interpretation techniques in the SHM domain, promoting the practical application of machine learning and pattern recognition with incomplete and missing/sparse signals in smart cities and smart infrastructure monitoring.","Hadi Salehi,Hadi Salehi,Subir Biswas,Subir Biswas,Rigoberto Burgueño,Rigoberto Burgueño",Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence,2019
10.1016/j.matpr.2019.12.406,,,Methods of damage detection on composites under low velocity impact: Review,,"Nikhil P. Raut,Nikhil P. Raut,A.B. Kolekar,Aniket Kolekar,A.B. Kolekar,Shrinivas L. Gombi,S.L. Gombi",Materials Today: Proceedings,2020
10.1007/s00366-020-01027-6,,,Inverse structural damage identification problem in CFRP laminated plates using SFO algorithm based on strain fields,"Damage detection methods are an important field of engineering and crucial in terms of structural safety. However, in many practical cases, the process of monitoring and identifying damage is extremely difficult or even impractical due to the conditions of access and operation of a given component/structure. In this study, an inverse algorithm based on strain fields for damage identification in composite plate structures is presented. The inverse analyses combine experimental tests and digital image correlation (DIC) with numerical models based on finite element update method with great advantage of being a non-contact method. The proposed technique identifies the location and dimension of damages in a CFRP plate using static strains formulated as an objective function to be minimized. By model updating, the discrepancies between the experimental and the numerical results are minimized. For the success of the model updating, the efficiency of the optimization algorithm is essential. A powerful new metaheuristic sunflower optimization (SFO) is employed to update the unknown model parameters. Experimental results showed the excellent efficiency in the combined use of DIC, numerical modeling and SFO optimization to accurately identify the location of damage in numerical and experimental tests. The obtained results indicate that the proposed method can be used to determine efficiently the location and dimension of structural damages in mechanical structures.","Guilherme Ferreira Gomes,Guilherme Ferreira Gomes,Fabrício Alves de Almeida,Fabrício Alves de Almeida,Antônio Carlos Ancelotti,Antonio Carlos Ancelotti,Sebastião Simões da Cunha,Sebastião Simões da Cunha",Engineering With Computers,2020
10.1007/s00521-020-05180-3,,,Neural network-based damage identification in composite laminated plates using frequency shifts,"Delamination is the principal mode of failure of laminated composites. It is caused by the rupture of the fiber–matrix interface and results in the separation of the layers. This failure is induced by interlaminate tension and shear that is developed due to a variety of factors such as fatigue. Composites are known for excellent structural performance, which can be significantly affected by delamination.
Such damages are not always visible on the surface and can lead to sudden catastrophic failures. To ensure a structural performance and integrity, accurate methods to monitor damages are required. This work presents a methodology for damage detection and identification on laminated composite plates using artificial neural networks fed with modal data obtained by finite element analysis.
The proposed neural network to quantify damage severity achieved up to 95% success rate. A comparative study was done to evaluate the effect of boundary conditions on damage location. With the comparative study results, another neural network was proposed to locate damage position, achieving excellent results by successfully locating or by significantly reducing the search area.
Both proposed ANNs use only frequency variation values as inputs, an easily obtainable quantity that requires few equipment to be acquired. The obtained results from these numerical examples indicate that the proposed approach can detect true damage locations and estimate damage magnitudes with satisfactory accuracy for this particular geometry, even under high measurement noise.","Guilherme Antônio Oliver,Guilherme Antônio Oliver,Antônio Carlos Ancelotti,Antonio Carlos Ancelotti,Guilherme Ferreira Gomes,Guilherme Ferreira Gomes",Neural Computing and Applications,2020
10.1007/s00366-020-01128-2,,,An efficient two-step damage identification method using sunflower optimization algorithm and mode shape curvature (MSDBI–SFO),"Laminated composite structures performance and behavior can be affected by damage that is not always visible on the surface. The need to monitor the health of these structures has continuously increased, which can be achieved in a fast and cost-effective way by numerical simulations. This paper presents an efficient two-step approach for damage identification in laminated composite plates. The first step uses mode shape and its derivatives (mode shape curvature) to locate the damages based on modal data. The proposed indicator utilizes modal analysis information extracted from finite element analysis. Then, a new metaheuristic Sunflower Optimization method (SFO) is employed to assess the correct severity of induced damages. This technique considers the damage detection problem as an inverse problem with minimization of an objective function. Numerical examples considering laminated composite plate with one and two induced damaged sites (delamination) are considered. The results indicate that the proposed method not only successfully identifies the location and severity of multi-damage cases in the composite structures, but also provides a better efficiency in terms of time saving and computational costs.","Guilherme Ferreira Gomes,Guilherme Ferreira Gomes,Rafael Simões Giovani,Rafael Simões Giovani",Engineering With Computers,2020
10.1016/j.advengsoft.2020.102877,,,Tuning metaheuristic algorithms using mixture design: Application of sunflower optimization for structural damage identification,,"Guilherme Ferreira Gomes,Guilherme Ferreira Gomes,Fabrício Alves de Almeida,Fabrício Alves de Almeida",Advances in Engineering Software,2020
10.1016/j.compstruct.2020.112951,,,"Advances, limitations and prospects of nondestructive testing and evaluation of thick composites and sandwich structures: A state-of-the-art review",,"Walter Nsengiyumva,Walter Nsengiyumva,Walter Nsengiyumva,Shuncong Zhong,Shuncong Zhong,Jiewen Lin,Lin Jiewen,Qiukun Zhang,Qiukun Zhang,Jianfeng Zhong,Zhong Jianfeng,Yuexin Huang,Yuexin Huang",Composite Structures,2020
10.1049/cds2.12078,,,Optimal sensor placement of bridge structure based on sensitivity-effective independence method,"Taking the optimal sensor placement problem in bridge structural health monitoring as the study object and relying on the engineering example of a simply supported steel truss bridge, the improved optimal sensor placement method based on sensitivity-effective independence method was proposed. Using the sensitivity coefficient reflecting structural damage, the proposed method could modify the effective independence method reflecting the maximum linear independence. The proposed method further optimizes the sensor placement method. A method for selecting the number of models based on modal closeness was proposed and makes the selection of the number of modes more objective. The example analysis shows that evaluations using this method are effective for multiple evaluation criteria. The method ensures observability of the mode vector and identifiability of structural damage. It is an effective optimal sensor placement algorithm for the bridge structure.","Wenhao Chai,Wen-Hao Chai,Y.B. Yang,Ya-Xun Yang,Haibo Yu,Hai-Bo Yu,Fuli Yang,Fu-Li Yang,Zhikui Yang,Zhikui Yang",Iet Circuits Devices & Systems,2021
10.1016/j.compstruct.2021.114090,,,Vibration-based detection of skin-stiffener debonding on composite stiffened panels using surrogate-assisted algorithms,,"Jingwen Pan,Jingwen Pan,Krishna Shankar,Krishna Shankar,Hemant Kumar Singh,Hemant Kumar Singh,Hongxu Wang,Hongxu Wang,Zhifang Zhang,Zhifang Zhang,Huawei Tong,Huawei Tong",Composite Structures,2021
10.1007/s00366-021-01481-w,,,Parameter tuning for wavelet transform-based damage index using mixture design,"Composite structures are susceptible to sudden failures due their complex modes of failure. One of these modes is delamination, the detachment of the layers due to the rupture in the fiber-matrix interface. To avoid catastrophic failures, several Structural Health Monitoring techniques are employed. Damage indexes based on wavelet transform techniques are vastly explored and provide prominent results. However, they depend on user experience and are usually formulated by trial and error. The present study proposes a damage index to identify delaminations in a laminated composite beam, yet, the development is based on a well-defined methodology. The proposed damage index is composed of a weighted sum of discrete wavelet transform detail coefficients, obtained by applying the transform to the mode shapes of the structure. Mode shapes were obtained numerically and damage was simulated with a stiffness reduction in some elements of the model. A mixture design analysis and a multiobjective optimization were used for tuning the damage index parameters, which improved the accuracy of the damage index in 100% of the evaluated cases. The proposed method was capable of locating damage with substantial performance along the beam length and has the advantageous characteristic of being a no-baseline method.","Guilherme Antônio Oliver,Guilherme Antônio Oliver,João Luiz Junho Pereira,João Luiz Junho Pereira,Matheus Brendon Francisco,Matheus Brendon Francisco,Antônio Carlos Ancelotti,Antonio Carlos Ancelotti,Guilherme Ferreira Gomes,Guilherme Ferreira Gomes",Engineering With Computers,2021
10.1016/j.compstruct.2021.114622,,,Delamination detection in composite laminates using improved surrogate-assisted optimization,,"Huawei Tong,Huawei Tong,Jingwen Pan,Jingwen Pan,Hemant Kumar Singh,Hemant Kumar Singh,Weili Luo,Weili Luo,Zhifang Zhang,Zhifang Zhang,David Hui,David Hui",Composite Structures,2021
10.1016/j.ymssp.2021.108458,,,Sequential quantification strategy of delamination in composite laminate via collaborative active and passive monitoring,,"Xiaoming Ding,Ding Xuyun,Xiaojun Wang,Xiaojun Wang,Wenpin Chen,Wenpin Chen",Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing,2022
10.1016/j.compstruct.2021.114794,,,A Novel ANN-RDT Approach for Damage Detection of a Composite Panel Employing Contact and Non-Contact Measuring Data,,"Alireza Mojtahedi,Alireza Mojtahedi,Hamid Hokmabady,Hamid Hokmabady,Mohsen Kouhi,Mohsen Kouhi,Samira Mohammadyzadeh,Samira Mohammadyzadeh",Composite Structures,2022
10.1002/stc.2913,,,Two‐step damage identification method for composite laminates using distributed piezoelectric and strain sensors,"The long-term service of composite structures and the difficulty of controlling the load environment can cause unavoidable damage and make online damage identification imperative. In this paper, a two-step damage identification method for small penetrating damage in a fiber-reinforced composite laminate based on combined active and passive monitoring concepts by using distributed piezoelectric and strain sensors is proposed. First, based on the lamb wave generated via active excitation, the alternating time-reversal phase synthesis (ATRPS) method with an alternating excitation of each piezoelectric sensor is developed. By reversing the received signals in the time domain, thereby modulating the phase and superposition of all signals, the energy focus of the suspicious damage area is achieved. Second, the gradients between the strain measurements and the damage variables are derived. An optimization method based on the modified quasi-Newton search (MQNS) method is adopted to identify the damage extent of the suspicious elements by minimizing the error of the strain information between the reference model and the damage model. Numerical and experimental cases are then presented to demonstrate the validity, accuracy, and efficiency of the proposed methodology. The robustness is assessed in detail through a discussion of important parameters and noisy interference.","Xuyun Ding,Xiaoming Ding,Xiaojun Wang,Xiaojun Wang,Yunlong Li,Yunlong Li,Lei Wang,Lei Wang,Linxi Zeng,Linxi Zeng",,2021
10.3390/s22010153,,,Structural Health Monitoring in Composite Structures: A Comprehensive Review,"This study presents a comprehensive review of the history of research and development of different damage-detection methods in the realm of composite structures. Different fields of engineering, such as mechanical, architectural, civil, and aerospace engineering, benefit excellent mechanical properties of composite materials. Due to their heterogeneous nature, composite materials can suffer from several complex nonlinear damage modes, including impact damage, delamination, matrix crack, fiber breakage, and voids. Therefore, early damage detection of composite structures can help avoid catastrophic events and tragic consequences, such as airplane crashes, further demanding the development of robust structural health monitoring (SHM) algorithms. This study first reviews different non-destructive damage testing techniques, then investigates vibration-based damage-detection methods along with their respective pros and cons, and concludes with a thorough discussion of a nonlinear hybrid method termed the Vibro-Acoustic Modulation technique. Advanced signal processing, machine learning, and deep learning have been widely employed for solving damage-detection problems of composite structures. Therefore, all of these methods have been fully studied. Considering the wide use of a new generation of smart composites in different applications, a section is dedicated to these materials. At the end of this paper, some final remarks and suggestions for future work are presented.","Sahar Hassani,Sahar Hassani,Mohsen Mousavi,Mohsen Mousavi,Amir H. Gandomi,Amir H. Gandomi",Sensors,2021
10.3390/applmech2040061,,,Response-Only Damage Detection Approach of CFRP Gas Tanks Using Clustering and Vibrational Measurements,"The advancements in the automotive, aviation, and aerospace industry have led to an increased usage of CFRP high-pressure gas tanks. In order to avoid any fatal accidents, the inspection procedures require accuracy, but also practicality, to be used in the industry. The presented work focuses on response-only metrics from vibrational experimental measurements of the CFRP tank. The power spectral density and transmittance function curves are both compared for the accuracy and ability to be used as metrics for damage detection. Along with the selection of the proper metric, an appropriate clustering algorithm that can accurately group similar states of the structure is of high importance. Two clustering algorithms, agglomerative hierarchical and spectral clustering, are employed and compared for their performance. A small Type V CFRP tank is used as an experimental structure on this benchmark problem. In order to create realistic material damage, the tank is placed on an impact system multiple times where different damage magnitudes are created. After each new state and damage magnitude on the tank, vibrational experimental data are collected. Using the collected data, all the combinations of the mentioned metrics and algorithms are executed and properly compared to evaluate their accuracy.","Ilias Zacharakis,Ilias Zacharakis,Dimitrios Giagopoulos,Dimitrios Giagopoulos",,2021
10.1007/s11223-021-00344-5,,,"A Linear Elastic Fracture Mechanics Analysis of the Pre-Cracked Concrete Failure Mechanism Under Modes I, II, III, and IV Loading Conditions",,"J. Fu,Jinwei Fu,Hadi Haeri,Hadi Haeri,M. D. Yavari,Mojtaba Yavari,V. Sarfarazi,Vahab Sarfarazi,Mohammad Fatehi Marji,Mohammad Fatehi Marji,M. Guo,Michao Guo",Strength of Materials,2022
10.1080/15376494.2022.2028204,,,The influence of delamination parameters on the wavelet based damage index in CFRP structures,"This study performs a substantial statistical analysis on the effects of damage characteristics, such as position and severity, on a specific damage metric composed of coefficients obtained from the discrete wavelet transform. The results of the analysis serve as the basis for developing more sophisticated and optimized damage-identifying methods in structural health monitoring. For the methodological procedure, a carbon fiber reinforced polymer beam was numerically modeled using the finite element method where the damage was induced considering a local reduction of stiffness in different positions and levels of severity. The numerical methodology was validated with modal experimental tests. Results obtained through analysis of variance and design of experiments indicated the sensitivity of each factor and the response surface provided the best combination of factors for each response. Knowing the sensitivity and interaction of these parameters is essential for the correct formulation of damage indexes or other techniques in damage identification. The results obtained in this paper can be used as a guideline for engineers when developing new wavelet transform-based strategies for structural health monitoring.","Guilherme Antônio Oliver,Guilherme Antônio Oliver,João Luiz Junho Pereira,João Luiz Junho Pereira,Matheus Brendon Francisco,Matheus Brendon Francisco,Guilherme Ferreira Gomes,Guilherme Ferreira Gomes",Mechanics of Advanced Materials and Structures,2022
10.30521/jes.952837,,,An analysis on mode excitation energy in beam-like structures,"Energy harvesting, which is a popular subject, can be defined as the use of energy released by environmental forces such as earth-shaking, wind, etc. Civil engineering structures also harvest energy in a different way. Thanks to this energy harvest, the modal properties of structures such as natural frequency, mode shape can be estimated from the response histories taken from the structure. Modal properties of the structure give an impression of the health of the building. However, an important question comes to mind: Did the energy harvesting of the structures sufficiently drive the modes used to detect damage? Or in other words, has it exceeded a certain amount of energy to drive the modes? If the mode in question is not sufficiently excited, it can be interpreted as a harbinger of damage for an undamaged structure in the analysis using these modes. For this reason, it is an important issue to determine to what extent the modes are driven. In this study, the aforementioned subject has been explored with the title ""Mode Excitation Energy"" using the modal plot method.","Tarık Tufan,Tarık TUFAN,Hasan KÖTEN,Hasan Köten",Journal of energy systems,2022
10.1007/s00158-022-03270-5,,,Vibration-based damage detection in anisotropic laminated composite beams by a shear-deformable finite element and harmony search optimization,"A numerical procedure to detect and quantify damages in laminated composite beams with arbitrary lay-up using limited vibration data and harmony search optimization is presented. Since any damage in a structure changes its vibration characteristics, they can be considered as the diagnostic parameters with the help of an optimization technique. For the present study, frequencies and mode shapes are used as the damage diagnostic parameters, and the harmony search algorithm is used as the optimization tool. For finite element analyses, a five-node, thirteen-degree-of-freedom shear-deformable beam element is employed. This element can take into account the elastic couplings among extension, bending, and torsion arising due to material anisotropy existing in generally laminated composites as well as the Poisson’s effect. The damage to the beam is introduced by a stiffness loss coefficient at the elemental level while mass is assumed to be unchanged. Two different objective functions to be minimized are considered for damage detection. The efficacy of the proposed method with and without the presence of noise is demonstrated by two numerically simulated composite beams including single and multiple damages. Although its accuracy somewhat decreases in case of multiple minor damages, the proposed method is successful to detect moderate and severe single and multiple damages in practice. To overcome this weakness, (i) the algorithm can be hybridized with other metaheuristics, (ii) objective function can be enhanced by combining it with other vibration characteristics such as curvature, flexibility, and so on, or (iii) two- or multi-stage damage identification methods can be considered.","Volkan Kahya,Volkan Kahya,Sebahat Şimşek,Sebahat Şimşek,Vedat Toğan,Vedat Toğan",Structural and Multidisciplinary Optimization,
10.3390/s22145079,,,Vibration-Based Damage Detection Using Finite Element Modeling and the Metaheuristic Particle Swarm Optimization Algorithm,"The continuous development of new materials and larger and/or more complex structures drives the need for the development of more robust, accurate, and sensitive Structural Health Monitoring (SHM) techniques. In the present work, a novel vibration-based damage-detection method that contributes into the SHM field is presented using Metaheuristic algorithms coupled with optimal Finite Element Models that can effectively localize damage. The proposed damage-detection framework can be applied in any kind of detailed structural FE model, while requiring only the output information of the dynamic response of the structure. It can effectively localize damage in a structure by highlighting not only the affected part of the structure but also the specific damaged area inside the part. First, the optimal FE model of the healthy structure is developed using appropriate FE model updating techniques and experimental vibration measurements, simulating the undamaged condition. Next, the main goal of the proposed method is to create a damaged FE model that approximates the dynamic response of the damaged structure. To achieve this, a parametric area is inserted into the FE model, changing stiffness and mass to simulate the effect of the physical damage. This area is controlled by the metaheuristic optimization algorithm, which is embedded in the proposed damage-detection framework. On this specific implementation of the framework, the Particle Swarm Optimization (PSO) algorithm is selected which has been used for a wide variety of optimization problems in the past. On the PSO’s search space, two parameters control the stiffness and mass of the damaged area while additional location parameters control the exact position of the damaged area through the FE model. For effective damage localization, the Transmittance Functions from acceleration measurements are used which have been shown to be sensitive to structural damage while requiring output-only information. Finally, with proper selection of the objective function, the error that arises from modeling a physical damage with a linear damaged FE model can be minimized, thus creating a more accurate prediction for the damaged location. The effectiveness of the proposed SHM method is demonstrated via two illustrative examples: a simulated small-scale model of a laboratory-tested vehicle-like structure and a real experimental CFRP composite beam structure. In order to check the robustness of the proposed method, two small damage scenarios are examined for each validation model and combined with random excitations.","Ilias Zacharakis,Ilias Zacharakis,Dimitrios Giagopoulos,Dimitrios Giagopoulos",Sensors,
10.3390/vibration6040051,,,A Review on Vibration-Based Damage Detection Methods for Civil Structures,"Vibration-based damage detection is a range of methods that utilizes the dynamic response of a structure to evaluate its condition and detect damage. It is an important approach for structural health monitoring and has drawn much attention from researchers. While multiple reviews have been published focusing on different aspects of this field, there has not been a study specifically examining the recent development across the range of methods, including natural frequency, mode shape, modal curvature, modal strain energy, and modal flexibility-based damage detection methods. This paper aims to fill this gap by reviewing the recent application of these methods in civil structures, including beams, plates, trusses, frames, and composite structural members. The merits and limitations of each method are discussed, and research opportunities are presented. This broader review also provides an opportunity for critical comparison across this range of methods. While predominantly reviewing experiment-based studies, this review also considers some numerical studies that may motivate further research.","Xutao Sun,Sinniah Ilanko,Yusuke Mochida,Rachael C. Tighe",,2023
10.3390/s23063293,36992004,,A Systematic Review of Optimization Algorithms for Structural Health Monitoring and Optimal Sensor Placement,"In recent decades, structural health monitoring (SHM) has gained increased importance for ensuring the sustainability and serviceability of large and complex structures. To design an SHM system that delivers optimal monitoring outcomes, engineers must make decisions on numerous system specifications, including the sensor types, numbers, and placements, as well as data transfer, storage, and data analysis techniques. Optimization algorithms are employed to optimize the system settings, such as the sensor configuration, that significantly impact the quality and information density of the captured data and, hence, the system performance. Optimal sensor placement (OSP) is defined as the placement of sensors that results in the least amount of monitoring cost while meeting predefined performance requirements. An optimization algorithm generally finds the ""best available"" values of an objective function, given a specific input (or domain). Various optimization algorithms, from random search to heuristic algorithms, have been developed by researchers for different SHM purposes, including OSP. This paper comprehensively reviews the most recent optimization algorithms for SHM and OSP. The article focuses on the following: (I) the definition of SHM and all its components, including sensor systems and damage detection methods, (II) the problem formulation of OSP and all current methods, (III) the introduction of optimization algorithms and their types, and (IV) how various existing optimization methodologies can be applied to SHM systems and OSP methods. Our comprehensive comparative review revealed that applying optimization algorithms in SHM systems, including their use for OSP, to derive an optimal solution, has become increasingly common and has resulted in the development of sophisticated methods tailored to SHM. This article also demonstrates that these sophisticated methods, using artificial intelligence (AI), are highly accurate and fast at solving complex problems.","Sahar Hassani,Ulrike Dackermann",,2023
10.1016/j.compstruct.2023.116809,,,A review on recent developments in vibration-based damage identification methods for laminated composite structures: 2010–2022,,"Pankaj Chaupal,Prakash Rajendran",,2023
10.3390/s23020591,36679386,,Model-Based Damage Localization Using the Particle Swarm Optimization Algorithm and Dynamic Time Wrapping for Pattern Recreation,"Vibration-based damage detection methods are a subcategory of Structural Health Monitoring (SHM) methods that rely on the fact that structural damage will affect the dynamic characteristic of a structure. The presented methodology uses Finite Element Models coupled with a metaheuristic optimization algorithm in order to locate the damage in a structure. The search domains of the optimization algorithm are the variables that control a parametric area, which is inserted into the FE model. During the optimization procedure, this area changes location, stiffness, and mass to simulate the effect of the physical damage. The final output is a damaged FE model which can approximate the dynamic response of the damaged structure and indicate the damaged area. For the current implementation of this Damage Detection Framework, the Particle Swarm Optimization algorithm is used. As an effective metric of the comparison between the FE model and the experimental structure, Transmittance Functions (TF) are used that require output only acceleration signals. As with most model-based methods, a common concern is the modeling error and how this can be surpassed. For this reason, the Dynamic Time Wrapping (DTW) algorithm is applied. When damage occurs in a structure it creates some differences between the Transmittance Functions (TF) of the healthy and the damaged state. With the use of DTW, the damaged pattern is recreated around the TF of the FE model, while creating the same differences and, thus, minimizing the modeling error. The effectiveness of the proposed methodology is tested on a small truss structure that consists of Carbon-Fiber Reinforced Polymer (CFRP) filament wound beams and aluminum connectors, where four cases are examined with the damage to be located on the composite material.","Ilias Zacharakis,Dimitrios Giagopoulos",,2023
10.1080/15376494.2023.2202016,,,Wavelet transform-based damage identification in laminated composite beams based on modal and strain data,"Laminated composite structures suffer from delamination, the detachment of the layers due to the rupture of the fiber-matrix interface, as their principal mode of failure. In contrast to other damages, such as cracks, delaminations are often not visible on the surface, causing late detection and leading to sudden failures. To ensure that laminated composite structures operate flawlessly, precise monitoring methods are required. This work proposes a damage index composed of coefficients obtained from applying a Discrete Wavelet Transform to the mode shapes of a laminated composite beam with the purpose of identifying delaminations. Numerical damages were induced by reducing the stiffness in specific locations in order to simulate different damage cases and then providing data for the coefficient optimization in the damage index. After promising results for identifying damage in numerical cases, the damage index’s efficiency was tested with real carbon fiber-reinforced polymer beams. The experimental specimens were manufactured with delaminations induced by embedding non-sticking films between the layers. Again, high quality results in identifying damage were achieved. The damage index proved efficient at locating damage in almost all positions along the beam, just having issues at the free end due to the discontinuity of the signal. The same specimens were subjected to tensile stress below the yield point to obtain the strain fields of the structure through the Digital Image Correlation technique. A Discrete Wavelet Transform was applied to the strain fields, aiming to identify the delaminations. It is important to emphasize that the proposed damage index is a no-baseline method, a method that does not require information about the pristine structure.","Guilherme Antônio Oliver,João Luiz Junho Pereira,Matheus Brendon Francisco,Guilherme Ferreira Gomes",,2023
10.1007/s00158-022-03432-5,,,A reinforcement learning hyper-heuristic in multi-objective optimization with application to structural damage identification,,"Pei Cao,Yang Zhang,Kai Zhou,Jiong Tang",,2022
10.1007/s00158-022-03421-8,,,Damage detection in anisotropic-laminated composite beams based on incomplete modal data and teaching–learning-based optimization,,"Sebahat Şimşek,Sebahat Şimşek,Volkan Kahya,Volkan Kahya,Gökhan Adıyaman,Gökhan Adıyaman,Vedat Toğan,Vedat Toğan",Structural and Multidisciplinary Optimization,2022
